---
layout:     post
title:      2017-10-10
date:       2017-10-10 00:30:00
summary:    VC5 GPU reset, VC5 GL, DSI panel
categories: 
---

I spent this week in front of the VC5 hardware, working toward
implementing GPU reset.  I'm going to need reliable reset before I can
start running GL testsuites.

Of course, to believe that GPU reset works, I'm going to want some
tests that trigger it.  I pulled the VC5 XML-based code-generation
from Mesa into i-g-t, and built up basic rendering tests using it.  It
caught that I was misusing struct scatterlist (causing CPU page faults
trying to fill the VC5 MMU).  I also had mistyped a bit of the XML,
calling a bitmask a bool so that the hardware tried to store render
targets 1, 2, and 3, instead of 0 (causing GPU hangs).  After
stabilizing all that, building the hang testcase was pretty simple.

Taking a break from kernel adventures, I did a bit more work on the
vc5 GL driver.  Transform feedback now has many tests passing,
provoking vertex is supported, float32 render targets are supported,
MRTs are supported, colormasks are fixed for non-independent blending,
a regression in blending with a 0 factor is fixed, and >32bpp clear
colors are fixed.

I've got a new revision of Boris's VC4 MADVISE work, and it's looking
good.  Boris has also cleaned up some debug messages that have been
spamming dmesg on the Raspberry Pi, which is great news for us.

I also spent quite some time reviewing Dylan's meson work for Mesa.
It's a slog -- build systems for a project of Mesa's scale are huge,
but I've seen what meson can get you in productivity gains from my
conversion of the X Server, and it looks like we should be able to
replace all 3(!) of Mesa's build systems with this one.

Finally, on Friday I got the reviews necessary for the DSI panel
driver, and I merged it to drm-misc-next to appear in the 4.15 kernel.
We still need to figure out what to do about the devicetree for it
(since it's sort of an optional piece of hardware for the board, but
more official than other hardware), but at least this is a lot less
for downstreams to carry.

Next week: merging vc5 GL and working on actually performing GPU reset.
