---
layout:     post
title:      2017-07-17
date:       2017-07-17 00:30:00
summary:    vc5, raspbian performance, vc4 KMS
categories: 
---

This week's VC5 progress primarily involved rewriting the CLIF-style
debug dumps using Intel's gen_decode.c code.  Instead of
code-generating a bunch of C functions that print out a struct's
contents, I now have a little bit of C code that parses a compressed
version of the XML at runtime to pick apart the struct and dump it.
I've implemented this on VC4 and VC5, and started the Android build
debugging process for it.

I also finished fixing the regressions from my VC5 QIR redesign.  We
now operate on just QPU instructions with sideband information for
register allocation, instead of a higher-level IR (that's what NIR is
for).

For Raspbian performance, I've been talking with keithp and others
about my window-dragging performance issue.  My current plan is to
implement a little GL extension that gives glBlitFramebuffer() defined
behavior for 1:1 overlapping copies, and then use that from X11 to
avoid the temporary.  That should cut the cost of the window movement
in half (not counting the cost of the drawing caused by the expose
events).

On the KMS front, I've fixed a regression in dual-display support from
my previous tiling work.  In the process, I've also written a fix for
panning, which was broken even before the tiling work.  I've pushed a
fix from Boris for a warning on CRTC enable.  I've also worked on
handling the review feedback from the last DSI series, and
started on review of Hans's VC4 CEC support.
