---
layout:     post
title:      2017-06-19
date:       2017-06-19 00:30:00
summary:    tiled scanout, panel, pl111, android
categories: 
---

Last week I got review on the new interface for tiling for vc4, and
landed it in the kernel.  I've submitted Mesa patches to the list,
landed the kernel backport in Raspbian, and have sent Simon (the
package maintainer at the Foundation) the Mesa patchset to backport
all of my work from the last 6 months (unfortunately Raspbian
generally doesn't update Mesa past the Debian stable release, so
graphics work for them has long delays).  I also worked with Dom at the
Foundation to get an interface for the firmwarekms mode to do tiled
scanout, so it will be as fast as the open source driver.

I also reworked the official 7" touchscreen panel driver again.  I had
initially written it as a DSI panel driver, then got told it should be
a bridge driver plus a panel driver, then the bridge maintainers told
me it should be only one panel driver but attach to I2C.  Maybe this
version will stick, who knows.

My Mesa side for pl111 is now in master, so I've got the second
platform for the vc4 driver basically done.  I can't wait to do
another one.

I got a question about whether VC4 could do EGL_ANDROID_native_fence, to
allow using Android's hwcomposer (the display server that puts
surfaces in KMS planes if it can).  I spent a while looking into it,
and found that while code had landed in Mesa for other drivers, the
piglit tests had been left around untouched for the last half a year.
I reviewed them and hopefully they can land soon.  Unfortunately, they
don't cover the important functionality of the extension, so I can't
use them to actually write the driver code (which doesn't look very
hard) until I build some more tests.

On the non-vc4 kernel side, I prepared and submitted pull requests for
4.13.  We've got USB OTG support for the Pi Zero, SDHOST enabled by
default finally, thermal enabled by default finally, and the RPi3 DT
being installed for 32-bit kernels.  Three of these took months longer
than they should have, because the Linux kernel has the worst software
development process I've worked with since XFree86.
