---
layout:     post
title:      2017-10-23
date:       2017-10-23 00:30:00
summary:    VC5 GL, GL_MESA_tile_raster_order
categories: 
---

This week I mostly spent on the 7268, getting the GL driver stabilized
on the actual HW.

First, I implemented basic overflow memory allocation, so we wouldn't
just hang and reset when that condition triggers.  This let me
complete an entire piglit run on the HW, which is a big milestone.

I also ended up debugging why the GPU reset on overflow wasn't working
before -- when we reset we would put the current bin job onto the tail
of the binner job list, so we'd just try it again later and hang again
if that was the bad job.  The intent of the original code had been to
move it to the "done" list so it would get cleaned up without
executing any more.  However, that was also a problem -- you'd end up
behind by one in your seqnos completed, so BO idle would never work.
Instead, I now just move it to the next stage of the execution
pipeline with a "hung" flag to say "don't actually execute anything
from this".  This is a bug in vc4 as well, and I need to backport the
fix.

Once I had reliable piglit, I found that there was an alignment
requirement for default vertex attributes that I hadn't uncovered in
the simulator.  By moving them to CSO time, I reduced the draw
overhead in the driver and implicitly got the buffer aligned like we
needed.

Additionally, I had implemented discards using conditional tile buffer
writes, same as vc4.  This worked fine on the simulator, but had no
effect on the HW.  Replacing that with SETMSF usage made the discards
work, and probably reduced instruction count.

On the vc4 front, I merged the MADVISE code from Boris just in time
for the last pull request for 4.15.  I also got in the DSI
transactions sleeping fix, so the code should now be ready for people
to try hooking up random DSI panels to vc4.

