---
layout:     post
title:      2017-10-02
date:       2017-10-02 00:30:00
summary:    VC5 GL, VC4 memory management, dma-bufs
categories: 
---

While I was waiting for review feedback I need on two patches (NIR
alpha testing and VC5's core autotools changes to enable the driver),
I had some fun filling out more of the GL driver to reduce the piglit
failure rate.

I've implemented generic tile lists (which allow multicore rendering),
fixed base vertex, added base instance, fixed Z updates with discards,
added 16-bit depth buffers, fixed depth and stencil clears, fixed
interpolation qualifiers on deprecated color inputs, and started
fixing the transform feedback support.

On the VC4 front, Boris has been busy working on the MADVISE ioctl.
As with other GL drivers, we have a userspace BO cache, so that you
don't have to page fault in new buffer objects in every frame.
However, if we call the new madvise ioctl when putting BOs in the
cache, the kernel gets permission to free our buffers if it needs to
(for example, when CMA has run out of space for a new X11 window you
opened).  He's submitted kernel, userspace code, and tests and had
some feedback so far.

Maxime has also started up on the vc4 project, working on getting the
Chamelium test environment working on the Raspberry Pi's HDMI output.
I'm hoping Chamelium can help us stabilize HDMI in the long term, but
for right now the goal is to use it to build tests for displaying
VC4's tiling formats (particularly the SAND tiling format from the
media decode engine).

I also got some good news from Raspberry Pi, that Dave Stevenson has
VCSM successfully importing dma-bufs.  This is a major step for
displaying or GL rendering from of the media decode engine's buffers.

Finally, I took the next step in merging my MESA_tile_raster_order
extension: Submitting a pull request to Khronos to add the spec.
Hopefully we'll be able to merge the code for faster uncomposited X11
soon.
