---
layout:     post
title:      2017-06-26
date:       2017-06-26 00:30:00
summary:    vc4-xml, panel, raspbian vc4, memory debug
categories: 
---

This week I picked up my old vc4-xml branch.  This rework was inspired
by the Intel driver, where they wrote an XML description of the
hardware packets and use that to code-generate the packet packing and
debug dumping code.  Given that vc4's debug dumping has always been
somewhat of a mess (and its code is duplicated between mesa and
vc4-gpu-tools), it would be great to do the same thing to vc4.  More
importantly, the XML-generated pack code easily lets you do things
like precompute part of your packed state packet at gallium CSO
generation time, and then just memcpy (or OR together two copies) at
draw time.

My problem with the branch had been that it bloated the size of the
vc4_emit.c code (the draw-time path), which probably meant that it
reduced performance compared to my old hand-written packing.  I had
spent a couple of weeks writing fast paths for things like moving a
float into the unaligned CL, or packing a couple of flag bits into the
bottom of a 32-bit address, but that only took the bloat from like 20%
to 10%.  Last week, I decided to stop using the size as a proxy for
performance and just test performance, and it turns out that the
difference was negligible or slightly positive!  Now I need to get an
Android build done, and merge.

In the process of doing this draw overhead testing, I turned on a new
gallium flag that cut the CPU overhead of draw calls by 5%, which was
more than any of my vc4-xml overhead ever was!

I also spent more time on the 7" panel again, trying a rework of the
load order in response to review feedback.  It turns out that the DSI
portion of DRM isn't built to support drivers the way that previous
feedback requested, and nobody has a concrete plan for how it would
work.  I've tried one avenue of fixing it, but that ran into another
mess in the DSI subsystem.

Switching Raspbian over to vc4 fkms is currently stalled on Simon
rebuilding the packages with the current Mesa patchset.  I've fixed a
minor issue in the fkms overlay that requested aligned CMA areas
despite my having removed that requirement a while back, so hopefully
they'll finally enable vc4 on Pi0/1 as well once they get around to
updating.

I did another round of review on the piglit series for
ANDROID_native_fence and they're ready to land now.

I sent out a rework to make some VC4 NIR lowering code shareable with
other drivers.  Freedreno and Intel have both wanted it at some point,
so hopefully I can get some review on it.

In the kernel, I polished up my BO-labeling code that gives you
detailed graphics memory usage information in /debug/dri/0/bo_stats.
The cleanup was to effectively eliminate the CPU overhead, unless you
choose do labeling from userspace.  Adding this userspace interface
required adding intel-gpu-tools testcases, so I wrote those.  The Mesa
side isn't merged yet since we need kernel review first, and will
probably only be enabled in debug driver builds.  To make it really
fancy, I should also hook up glObjectLabel() all the way to the
kernel, so that /debug/dri/0/bo_stats can have things like "X11 ARGB
glyph cache" instead of "resource 1024x1024@4" for that mystery 4MB
buffer you've got.

Finally, I did some cleanup of the VC4 modesetting code, prompted by
Boris's recent cleanups.  We're much closer to matching the common DRM
helpers now, with just our async pageflip code still being special.
Once Gustavo's async cursor bits land, we may be able to remove our
async pageflip special case as well!
