---
layout:     post
title:      2017-07-10
date:       2017-07-10 00:30:00
summary:    vc5, raspbian performance
categories: 
---

Last week I got permission to open source my work on the a Mesa-based
VC5 3D driver for BCM7268.  You can see the announcement
[here](https://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/mesa-dev/2017-July/162087.html)
which I won't replicate on this blog.  TWIVC4 is going to be a lot of
TWIVC5 from here on out!

I spent the rest of the week working on fixing performance regressions
when Raspbian switches from software rendering to to using the vc4
driver without a compositor enabled.  The current concern is that
window dragging gets slower, and in the worst case can end up with
seconds of window dragging queued up behind the motion of the mouse
cursor.

Past debugging of mine into how we end up with seconds of window
movement queued was fruitless.  I suspect it's "each mouse position is
streamed out to the window manager, and the window manager naively
queues up a window move for each position it gets, rather than reading
through all the position events it gets at once and sending a single
move for the last one".  Instead, I worked on just seeing if we can
speed up enough that we don't care.

X11 opaque window dragging is a tough case, because unlike
compositors, the contents of the window are stored on the screen
(saving gobs of memory, which is important on the Raspberry Pi).  When
you drag the window, the src and dst regions usually overlap, so we
have to be careful to not overwrite src pixels before they've been
copied to the dst.  In software rasterization, we just arrange the
memcpy to happen in the correct order.  For GL, we have no such
control.

What glamor does instead is make a temporary copy of the src pixels,
and then copy from the temp to the dst.  This creates dependencies
between the screen-to-temp and temp-to-screen jobs, so we flush the
rendering job at least twice per copy of the window, not counting any
flushes that happen for the rendering of the exposed contents from
whatever was underneath the window's old position.

In my tracing, I found that the jobs being generated during window
dragging were saying that they could modify any tile on the screen,
not just the tiles being affected by the copy (so we read and write
each tile on the screen for those jobs).  In many paths in glamor we
use glScissor() to limit our rendering to some subset of the screen
(for example, the clip region of the window for rectangle fills), and
this lets the GL keep our jobs trimmed to the appropriate size.
However, copies and rectangle fills were scissoring only to the
destination drawable's area, which for LXDE was everything but the
global menu bar.

I made a [small
series](https://github.com/anholt/xserver/commits/glamor-draw-bounds)
that looks at small drawing operations and uses glScissor() to clip to
their bounds to help tiled renderers like vc4.  I was careful to try
to limit the impact of these changes on non-vc4 -- fast desktop
renderers don't want to spend the CPU to compute the bounds of the
operations when they don't use the bounds.

It hasn't completely fixed RPi window dragging, but things are a lot
smoother.  We may find more paths that need this treatment as more
people switch to using vc4 for X11 drawing.
