---
layout:     post
title:      2018-06-19
date:       2018-06-19 00:30:00
summary:    V3D conformance, plane offsets, DSI compatibility
categories: 
---

Most of the past few weeks have been focused on improving the V3D
driver's dEQP/VK-GL-CTS conformance rates.  The piglit infrastructure
for the conformance tests is strange, and there doesn't seem to be a
way in tree to do an approximation of a proper conformance run, so
I've had to glue together the deqp and khr_gles profiles, with some
overrides for generating the khr_gles test list to be run (since we
don't seem to have a way to run a conformance mustpass list).  There
were lots of deqp failures when I started, due to not having run that
suite before, but I'm down to a <.5% failure rate on simulation now.

On the testing front, thanks to Maxime we now have a vc4 testlist in
the i-g-t suite.  Hopefully the Raspberry Pi foundation can start
using that to get some coverage of the vc4 driver when they update
their kernel -- as is, it seems my PRs mostly languish until Dom has
time to hand-test them, which is absurd.

Boris has been working on supporting plane X/Y offsets (panning) with
the T tiling format.  He has it working on every other tile row, and
I'm concerned that the HW may just be broken, since T scanout didn't
see a whole lot of testing as far as I know.

I wrote a patchset to core DRM to let drivers control the ordering of
calling into bridges, which is important for DSI where you want to
have the bridge prepare be before video packets are scanned out, but
after the module is ready to send DSI transactions.  This should let
more DSI panels work with the Raspberry Pi, but the patch needs a
rework after review.
