---
layout:     post
title:      2018-05-30
date:       2018-05-30 00:30:00
summary:    V4L2, GNOME performance hackfest, V3D userspace, VC4 fencing
categories: 
---

Early this month, I started on the upstreaming the prerequisite
patches for Dave Stevenson's MMAL V4L2 codec driver.  The Kodi
developers have tested that their pipeline works on the KMS backend
using that driver, so once we get this upstream it should mean full
media decode acceleration support for Kodi and gstreamer-based
applications.  All the prep patches were quickly accepted by gregkh,
and now the MMAL camera driver will automatically probe at boot time
when enabled.

The next week, I took a trip out to Cambridge to meet up with GNOME
developers to work on performance issues on their software stack with
lower-spec devices.

My primary task I adopted during the hackfest was building up support
for capturing DRM events into sysprof.  For anyone who hasn't used it,
sysprof is a beautiful tool for doing systemwide sampling profiling.
Its maintainer, Christian Hergert, has been building up some timeline
infrastructure in it, so you can see CPU utilization over time and
look at samples within a chosen time range.  By including some useful
perf tracepoints in our captures too, we can see when vblank is and
when GPU jobs were running relative to it.

![vc4 timeline]({{ site.url }}/assets/sysprof-gpu-timings.png)

That's the first cut of throwing the events from a Raspberry Pi
running fullscreen glxgears into the UI -- you've got the GPU's binner
on top, then the GPU's renderer, and the vblank event at the bottom.
These aren't great yet, but for a couple of days of hacking it's a
good start.  We should be able to do AMDGPU, V3D, and etnaviv
timelines easily as well, but i915 unfortunately hides the necessary
tracepoints under an off-by-default Kconfig option.

There exist other tools that capture GPU timelines already, like
gpuvis.  However, gpuvis seems to be composed of a bunch of shell
scripts and commands on a wiki, and isn't packaged on debian.
Incorporating support for DRM events into sysprof means that anyone
updating the package will get this code, complete with nice
authentication for getting the privileges necessary to start
profiling.  While I was there, Mathias worked on having GTK provide
tracepoints from some of its notable codepaths, and Jonas worked on
having gnome-shell get tracepoints as well.  Hopefully, all of these
tracepoints glued together can give us some visualization of what went
wrong across the system when we miss a vblank.

Ultimately, though, I'm skeptical of GNOME 3 ever being usable on a
Raspberry Pi.  The clutter-based gnome-shell painting is too slow (60%
of a CPU burned in the shell just trying to present a single 60fps
glxgears), and there doesn't seem to be a plan for improving it other
than "maybe we'll delete clutter some day?"  Also, the javascipt
extension system being in the compositor thread means that you drop
application frames when something else (network statechanges,
notifications, etc) happens in the system.  This was a bad software
architecture choice, and digging out of that hole now would take a
long time.  (I'm agnostic on whether it was wrong to move those into
the same process as the compositor, but same thread was definitely
wrong).  I'll keep working on the debugging tools to try to enable
anyone to work on these problems, though.

After the hackfest, I stopped by the Raspberry Pi offices to talk
multimedia again.  Dave Stevenson's going to take on upstreaming the
v4l2 codec driver, having seen how easy the camera upstreaming to
staging was.  I respun the SAND display patches to get them
upstreamed, so we can start talking about SAND with V4L2 soon.  I also
did some review of the core DRM writeback connector patches, so that
hopefully we can push Boris's VC4 support and be able to use that from
things like HWC2 to do scene flattening.

While at the hotel, I tried out Stefan Schake's vc4 fencing patches,
wrote a couple of little fixes, and pushed the lot to Mesa.

For V3D, I wrote a patch series for supporting a bunch of GLES3
bitfield conversion operations on HW with no explicit instructions for
them.  Unfortunately, as the first one with hardware needing them,
there hasn't been any review yet.  I also implemented
glSampleMask/glSampleCoverage, and fixed some NaN bugs.  Finally, I
pushed the patches enabling the Mesa driver by default now that the
kernel side has been accepted upstream!

After that busy couple of weeks, I took a week off at Portland's
regional burn, and I'm back to work now.
