---
layout:     post
title:      2018-04-23
date:       2018-04-23 00:30:00
summary:    VC4 display, VC5 kernel submitted
categories: 
---

For VC5, I renamed the kernel driver to "v3d" and submitted it to the
kernel.  Daniel Vetter came back right away with a bunch of useful
feedback, and next week I'm resolving that feedback and continuing to
work on the GMP support.

On the vc4 front, I did the investigation of the HDL to determine that
the OLED matrix applies before the gamma tables, so we can expose it
in the DRM for Android's color correction.  Stefan was also interested
in reworking his fencing patches to use syncobjs, so hopefully we can
merge those and get DRM HWC support in mainline soon.  I also pushed
Gustavo's patch for using the new core DRM infrastructure for async
cursor updates.  This doesn't simplify our code much yet, but Boris
has a series he's working on that gets rid of a lot of custom vc4
display code by switching more code over to the new async support.

Unfortunately, the vc4 subsystem node removal patch from last week
caused the DRM's platform device to not be on the SOC's bus.  This
caused bus address translations to be subtly wrong and broke caching
(so eventually the GPU would hang).  I've shelved the patches for now.

I also rebased my user QPU submission code for the Raspberry Pi folks.
They keep expressing interest in it, but we'll see if it goes anywhere
this time around.  Unfortunately I don't see any way to expose this
for general distributions: vc4 isn't capable enough for OpenCL or GL
compute shaders, and custom user QPU submissions would break the
security model (just like GL shaders would have without my shader
validator, and I think validating user QPU submissions would be even
harder than GL shaders).
