---
layout:     post
title:      2018-04-09
date:       2018-04-09 00:30:00
summary:    VC5, VC4 DSI docs, VC4 code review
categories: 
---

I continued spending time on VC5 in the last two weeks.

First, I've ported the driver over to the AMDGPU scheduler.  Prior to
this, vc4 and vc5's render jobs get queued to the HW in the order that
the GL clients submit them to the kernel.  OpenGL requires that jobs
within a client effectively happen in that order (though we do some
clever rescheduling in userspace to reduce overhead of some
render-to-texture workloads due to us being a tiler).  However, having
submission order to the kernel dictate submission order to the HW
means that a single busy client (imagine a crypto miner) will starve
your desktop workload, since the desktop has to wait behind all of the
bulk-work jobs the other client has submitted.

With the AMDGPU scheduler, each client gets its own serial run queue,
and the scheduler picks between them as jobs in the run queues become
ready.  It also gives us easy support for in-fences on your jobs, one
of the requirements for Android.  All of this is with a bit less vc5
driver code than I had for my own, inferior scheduler.

Currently I'm making it most of the way through piglit and conformance
test runs, before something goes wrong around the time of a GPU reset
and the kernel crashes.  In the process, I've improved the
documentation on the scheduler's API, and hopefully this encourages
other drivers to pick it up.

Second, I've been working on debugging some issues that may be TLB
flushing bugs.  On the piglit "longprim" test, we go through overflow
memory quickly, and allocating overflow memory involves updating PTEs
and then having the GPU read from those in very short order.  I see a
lot of GPU segfaults on non-writable PTEs where the new overflow BO
was allocated just after the last one (so maybe the lookups that
happened near the end of the last one pre-fetched some PTEs from our
space?).  The confusing part is that I keep getting write errors far
past where I would have expected any previous PTE lookups to have
gone.  Yet, outside of this case and maybe a couple of others within
piglit and the CTS, we seem to be completely fine at PTE updates.

On the VC4 front, I wrote some docs for what I think the steps are for
people that want to [connect new DSI panels to Raspberry
Pi](https://github.com/anholt/linux/wiki/Raspberry-Pi-and-other-MIPI-DSI-display-panels).
I reviewed Stefan's patches for using the CTM for color correction on
Android (promising, except I'm concerned it applies at the wrong stage
of the DRM display pipeline), and some of Boris's work on async
updates (simplifying our cursor and async pageflip path).  I also
reviewed an Intel patch that's necessary for a core DRM change we want
for our SAND display support, and a Mesa patch fixing a regression
with the new modifiers code.
