---
layout:     post
title:      2018-02-28
date:       2018-02-28 00:30:00
summary:    VC4 media, VC5 3D, platform maintainering
categories: 
---

After the Raspberry Pi visit, I had a week off to wander around the UK
with my partner, and now I'm back.

First, I got to fix regressions in Mesa master on both vc4 and vc5.
(Oh, how I wish for non-vendor-specific CI of this project).  I also
wrote 17 patches to fix various compiler warnings that were driving me
nuts.

I refactored my VC4 YUV GL import support, and pulled out the basic
copying of the incoming linear data into tiled for the 3D engine to
use.  This is a CPU-side copy, so it's really slow due to the uncached
read, but it means that you can now import YUV textures using
EGL_image_external on Mesa master.  Hopefully this can enable Kodi
devs to start playing with this on their KMS build.

I've also rewritten the hardware-accelerated YUV blit code to
hopefully be mergeable.  Now I just need to stabilize it.

In VC5 land, I've tested and pushed a couple of new fixes to enable 3D
textures.

On the kernel side, I've merged a bunch of DT and defconfig patches
for Pi platform enabling, and sent them upstream.  In particular I
want to call out Baruch Siach's firmware GPIO expander patch series,
which took several revisions to get accepted (sigh, DT), but will let
us do proper Pi3 HDMI hotplug detection and BT power management.
Boris's merged patch to forward-port my I2C fix also apparently fixes
some EDID detection on HDMI monitors, which will be good news for
people trying to switch to KMS.
