---
layout:     post
title:      2018-07-30
date:       2018-07-30 00:30:00
summary:    V3D conformance, GMP
categories: 
---

I made some progress on GMP this week, getting jobs to run
successfully if I enable regions in the GMP but never disable them.  I
need to do some more work on BO lifetime management if I want to clear
disallowed regions back out of the GMP.

I did some more conformance debug, fixing one of the intermittent
issues in GLES3 (The same rendering-versus-VS-texturing
synchronization bug that broke glmark2 terrain on vc4).  GLES3
conformance is now at GLES2 status plus one new set of intermittent
issues.  Another fix I made (not misusing HW semaphores) unfortunately
doesn't seem to have improved anything.

I had a few performance ideas left over from last week, and built them
on Monday (fixed extra flushing due to glClear() after drawing, or the
GFHX-1461 workaround, avoid storing buffers that had all their drawing
masked out).  Performance of simple apps was still astoundingly slow,
so I did some more poking around and determined that my V3D HW is
actually running at 37 Mhz.  My other board runs at 27Mhz.  Now I know
why my conformance runs have been taking so long!  Unfortunately,
Broadcom STB doesn't support clock control from Linux, so I won't
really be able to do performance work on this driver until I can get a
SW stack under me that can set the right clock speeds.

Finally, I cleaned up and merged my CLIF dumping code, so V3D can now
generate simple traces that can be replayed by the software simulator
or on FPGAs to debug lockups.  It's going to take a bit more work to
make it so that BO addresses in uniforms work, which is needed for
texturing, UBOs, and spilling.
