---
layout:     post
title:      2018-02-12
date:       2018-02-12 00:30:00
summary:    LCA 2018, VC4 media, VC5 progress
categories: 
---

I spent the end of January gearing up for LCA, where I gave a talk
about what I've done in Broadcom graphics since my last LCA talk 3
years earlier.  Video is
[here](https://archive.org/details/lca2018-Broadcoms_Open_Source_Graphics_Stack).

(Unfortunately, I failed to notice the time countdown, so I didn't
make it to my fun VC5 demo, which had to be done in the hallway after)

I then spent the first week of February in Cambridge at the Raspberry
Pi office working on vc4.  The goal was to come up with a plan for
switching to at least the "fkms" mode with no regressions, with a
route to full KMS by default.

The first step was just fixing regressions for fkms in 4.14.  The
amusing one was mouse lag, caused by us accidentally syncing mouse
updates to vblank, and an old patch to reduce HID device polling to
~60fps having been accidentally dropped in the 4.14 rebase.  I think
we should be at parity-or-better compared to 4.9 now.

For full KMS, the biggest thing we need to fix is getting media decode
/ camera capture feeding into both VC4 GL and VC4 KMS.  I wrote some
magic shader code to turn linear Y/U/V or Y/UV planes into tiled
textures on the GPU, so that they can be sampled from using
GL_OES_EGL_image_external.  The kmscube demo works, and working with
Dave Stevenson I got a demo mostly working of H.264 decode of Big Buck
Bunny into a texture in GL on X11.

While I was there, Dave kept hammering away at the dma-buf sharing
work he's been doing.  Our demo worked by having a vc4 fd create the
dma-bufs, and importing that into vcsm (to talk MMAL to) and into the
vc4 fd used by Mesa (mmal needs the buffers to meet its own size
restrictions, so VC4 GL can't do the allocations for it).  The extra
vc4 fd is a bit silly -- we should be able to take vcsm buffers and
export them to vc4.

Also, if VCSM could do CMA allocations for us, then we could
potentially have VCSM take over the role of allocating heap for the
firmware, meaning that you wouldn't need big permanent gpu_mem= memory
carveouts in order for camera and video to work.

Finally, on the last day Dave got a bit distracted and put together
VC4 HVS support for the SAND tiling modifier.  He showed me a demo of
BBB H.264 decode directly to KMS on the console, and sent me the
patch.  I'll do a little bit of polish, and send it out once I get
back from vacation.

We also talked about plans for future work.  I need to:

- Polish and merge the YUV texturing support.
- Extend the YUV texturing support to import SAND-layout buffers with
  no extra copies (I suspect this will be higher performance media
  decode into GL than the closed driver stack offered).
- Make a (downstream-only) QPU user job submit interface so that John
  Cox's HEVC decoder can cooprate with the VC4 driver to do
  deinterlace.  (I have a long term idea of us shipping the
  deinterlace code as a "firmware" blob from the Linux kernel's
  perspective and using that blessed blob to securely do
  deinterlace in the upstream kernel.
- Make an interface for the firmware to request a QPU user job
  submission from VC4, so that the firmware's fancy camera AWB
  algorithm can work in the presence of the VC4 driver (right now I
  believe we fall back to a simpler algorithm on the VPU).
- Investigate reports of slow PutImage-style uploads from
  SDL/emulators/etc.

Dave plans to:

- Finish the VCSM rewrite to export dma-bufs and not need gpu_mem= any more.
- Make a dma-buf enabled V4L2 mem2mem driver for H.264 decode, JPEG
  decode, etc. using MMAL and VCSM.

Someone needs to:

- Use the writeback connector in X to implement rotation (which should
  be cheaper than using GL to do so).
- Backdoor the dispmanx library in Raspbian to talk KMS instead when
  the full vc4 KMS driver is loaded (at least on the console.  Maybe
  with some simple support for X11?).

Finally, other little updates:

- I ported Mesa to V3D 4.2
- Fixed some GLES3 conformance bugs for VC5
- Fixed 3D textures for VC5
- Worked with Boris on debugging HDMI failures in KMS, and reviewed
  his patches.  Finally the flip_done timeouts should be gone!
