---
layout:     post
title:      2018-07-23
date:       2018-07-23 00:30:00
summary:    V3D conformance
categories: 
---

Two more weeks of conformance debug, and I'm now down to 1 group of
failures in GLES2 and 1 group in EGL, both of which I believe are bugs
in the tests (regressions in recent CTS releases, which is why Intel
hadn't caught them already).

Fixes have included:

* Various bugs in fence handling (one of which caused throttling of
  frames to fail, leading to unlimited userspace BO cache usage and 2
  days of debug flailing to track down).
* Allow EGLImages to be created of textures/renderbuffers that we
  can't do EGL_MESA_image_dma_buf_export on.
* Fixed EGLImage import for cubemap images.
* Landed the UIF format modifier support.
* Fixed uniform lowering to not cause absurd register spilling.
* Implemented more of the GFXH-1461 workaround to fix missing Z/S clears
* Implemented a hack in gallium's blitter to make the awful
  dEQP-GLES3.functional.fbo.blit.rect.nearest_consistency_* tests pass.
* Fixed incorrect reallocation of PERSISTENT buffers (also a vc4 bug!)
* Fixed 1D_ARRAY texture upload/download.
* Fixed drawing to MRT without independent blending
* Fixed MSAA mapping bugs in gallium's transfer helper.

I also spent a day knocking out some quick performance improvements:

* Rotate through the registers to allow the backend scheduler to pair
  up QPU instructions more frequently.
* Allow reading from the phys regfile in the following instruction.
* Use the SFU instructions instead of magic writes on V3D 4.x.
* Skip texture parameter P2 if it's just the default value.
* Start using small immediates (especially useful for VS input/outputs on 4.x).
* Fix extra scene flush when doing the GFXH-1461 workaround.

After this I should probably work on the GMP support again, then get
back to fixing GLES3.
