---
layout:     post
title:      2018-05-07
date:       2018-05-07 00:30:00
summary:    V3D kernel and userspace, VC4 fencing, VC4 display
categories: 
---

Last week I fixed the last change from review feedback and landed the
V3D (vc5/6 kernel DRM driver) to drm-misc-next.  This means, unless
something exceptional happens, it'll be in kernel 4.18.  I also sent
out a patch series renaming the Mesa driver to V3D as well.

For VC4, I landed Stefan Schake's syncobj patches in the kernel.  Once
that makes its way to drm-next, we can merge the Mesa side
(EGL_ANDROID_native_fence_sync extension) and I believe get
out-of-the-box Android HWC2 support.

I also merged a couple of old DSI patches of mine that got reviewed,
my DPI regression fix, and a fix from Boris for a (valid) warning that
was happening about the MADVISE refcounting versus async pageflips.

Boris has been busy working on adding display properties for TV
underscan.  Many HDMI monitors emulate old TV style scanout where,
despite being 1920x1080 pixels, they read from a smaller area of their
input and scale up.  HDMI has infoframes to tell the TV whether the
input is formatted for that old style scanout or not (as a desktop, we
would always want them to scan out 1:1), but since the HDMI
conformance tests didn't check it, most old HDMI TVs don't change
behavior on that input and just always underscan (or you have to dig
around in menus to get 1:1.  The overscan property on the closed
source firmware configures the HVS to scale the 1920x1080 desktop down
to the region that the TV will scale back up.  Display will look bad,
but it's better than losing your menu bars off the edge of the screen.
Once we collectively decide what the new KMS property should be,
Boris's patches should let people replicate this workaround in the KMS
world.

Boris has also been working on patch series to get VC4 to work with
the DSI display in the DT, whether or not the DSI display is actually
connected.  We need this if we want to avoid having additional closed
source firmware code hacking up the DT based on its own probing of the
DSI display.  His new series seems to have a chance of getting past
both DT, panel, and bridge maintainers, but I have honestly lost count
of what iteration of probing behavior we're on for this device (I
think it's around 10 variations, though).  It was all working at one
point, before DT review requirements wrecked it.
